doc: add the doc for 'Error Detection and Handling' (#2691)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/developer-guides/sw_design_guidelines.rst

  implement additional error reporting (mostly to hardware) if required. The
  default fatal error handler will invoke platform-specific handlers defined by
  users at first, then it will panic the system.

  This method applies to the following cases:

  - Related hardware resources are unavailable.
  - Boot information is invalid during platform initialization.
  - Unexpected exception occurs in root mode due to hardware failures.
  - Failures occur in the VM dedicated for error handling.

**Return error code**
  The hypervisor shall return error code to the VM when the below cases occur.
  The error code shall indicate the error type detected (e.g. invalid parameter,
  device not found, device busy, resource unavailable, etc).

  This method applies to the following case:

  - The hypercall parameter from the VM is invalid.

**Inform the safety VM through specific register or memory area**
  The hypervisor shall inform the safety VM through specific register or memory
  area when the below cases occur. The VM will decide how to handle the related
  error. This shall only be done after the VM (Safety OS or Service OS)

>   dedicated for error handling have started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dedicated to error handling has started.
```

  This method applies to the following cases:

  - Machine check errors occur due to hardware failures.

  - Unexpected VM entry failures occur, where the VM is not the one dedicated
    for error handling.

> **Crash the system via ASSERT**

Reviewer: You used the term ``panic`` in other spots in this document... I like that better than ``crash``

  The hypervisor can crash the system when the below cases occur. It shall
  only be used for debug and used to check pre-conditions and post-conditions
  to catch design errors.

  This method applies to the following case:

  - Software design errors occur.

Rules of Error Detection and Error Handling
-------------------------------------------

> The rules of error detection and error handling on architecture level is shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules of error detection and error handling on an architecture level are shown
```

in :numref:`rules_arch_level` below.

.. table:: Rules of Error Detection and Error Handling on Architecture Level
   :align: center
   :widths: auto
   :name: rules_arch_level

   +--------------------+-------------------------+--------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+

>    | **Resource Class** | **Failure Mode**        | **Error      | **Error Handling Policy** | **Example**             |

Reviewer: The table heading is **bold** by default, so you can leave off the bold indicators.

   |                    |                         | Detection    |                           |                         |
   |                    |                         | via          |                           |                         |
   |                    |                         | Hypervisor** |                           |                         |
   +====================+=========================+==============+===========================+=========================+

>    | External resource  | Invalid register/memory | Yes          | Follow SDM strictly, or   | Unsupported MSR         |

Reviewer: Some of the table cell contents end with a period and some don't.  I'd recommend leaving off the period on them all.

   | provided by        | invalid boot information|              | panic during platform     | invalid boot information|
   | bootloader         |                         |              | initialization.           | .                       |
   | (UEFI or SBL)      |                         |              |                           |                         |
   +--------------------+-------------------------+--------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+
   | Physical resource  | 1GB page is not         | Yes          | The hypervisor shall      | 1GB page is not         |
   | used by the        | available on the        |              | panic during platform     | available on the        |
   | hypervisor         | platform or invalid     |              | initialization.           | platform or invalid     |
   |                    | physical CPU ID         |              |                           | physical CPU ID.        |
   +--------------------+-------------------------+--------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+

Examples
--------

Here is an example to illustrate when error handling codes are required on

> architecture level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an architecture level.
```

There are two pre-condition statements of ``vcpu_from_vid``. It indicates that
it's the caller's responsibility to guarantee these pre-conditions.

.. code-block:: c

  /*

>    * @pre vcpu_id < CONFIG_MAX_VCPUS_PER_VM

Reviewer: It looks like you're using the ``@pre`` doxygen comment here, but the comment isn't properly written as a doxygen comment (with a ``/**`` beginning): 
```
/**
 * @pre vcpu_id < CONFIG_MAX_VCPUS_PER_VM
 * @pre &(vm->hw.vcpu_array[vcpu_id])->state != VCPU_OFFLINE
 */
```

   * @pre &(vm->hw.vcpu_array[vcpu_id])->state != VCPU_OFFLINE
   */
  static inline struct acrn_vcpu *vcpu_from_vid(struct acrn_vm *vm, uint16_t vcpu_id)
  {
          return &(vm->hw.vcpu_array[vcpu_id]);
  }

``vcpu_from_vid`` is called by ``hcall_set_vcpu_regs``, which is a hypercall.
``hcall_set_vcpu_regs`` is an external interface and ``vcpu_id`` is provided by
VM. In this case, we shall add the error checking codes before calling
``vcpu_from_vid`` to make sure that the passed parameters are valid and the
pre-conditions are guaranteed.

Here is the sample codes for error checking before calling ``vcpu_from_vid``:

.. code-block:: c

>   if (vcpu_id >= CONFIG_MAX_VCPUS_PER_VM) {

Reviewer: ``status`` should be initialized to 0 before this...

          pr_err("vcpu id is out of range \r\n");
          status = -EINVAL;
  }

>   if ((&(vm->hw.vcpu_array[vcpu_id]))->state == VCPU_OFFLINE) {

Reviewer: As written, if ``vcpu_id`` is invalid (as detected by the first test), this code will still be run with an invalid value for ``vcpu_id``.   This should be in an else if.

          pr_err("vcpu is offline \r\n");
          status = -EINVAL;
  }

  if (status == 0) {
          vcpu = vcpu_from_vid(vm, vcpu_id);
          ...
  }

Module Level
============

Fulfillment to FuSa Standards
-----------------------------

> The fulfillment matrix of error detection and error handling on module level to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fulfillment matrix of error detection and error handling on a module level to
```

.. table:: Fulfillment to FuSa Standards on Module Level
   :align: center
   :widths: auto
   :name: fulfillment_matrix_module_level

   +-----------------------+---------------+----------+---------------------------------------------------+
   | **Technique/Measure** | **Ref in      | **SIL3** | **Company Solution**                              |
   |                       | IEC 61508-7** |          |                                                   |
   +=======================+===============+==========+===================================================+
   | Design and coding     | C.2.6         | HR       | This technique will be used for internal functions|
   | standards             | Table B.1     |          | of the hypervisor. Plan to use data verification, |
   |                       |               |          | with explicit specification of pre-conditions and |
   |                       |               |          | post-conditions for functions.                    |
   +-----------------------+---------------+----------+---------------------------------------------------+

Error Handling Methods
----------------------

> The error handling methods used in ACRN hypervisor on module level are shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error handling methods used in the ACRN hypervisor on a module level are shown
```

below.

> **Crash the system via ASSERT**

Reviewer: Recommend ``Panic`` instead of ``Crash``

  The hypervisor can crash the system when the below cases occur. It shall

>   only be used for debug and used to check pre-conditions and post-conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  only be used for debugging, used to check pre-conditions and post-conditions
```

>   to catch design error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to catch design errors.
```

  This method applies to the following case:

  - Software design errors occur.

Rules of Error Detection and Error Handling
-------------------------------------------

> The rules of error detection and error handling on module level is shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules of error detection and error handling on a module level are shown in
```

:numref:`rules_module_level` below.

.. table:: Rules of Error Detection and Error Handling on Module Level
   :align: center
   :widths: auto
   :name: rules_module_level

   +--------------------+-----------+----------------------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+
   | **Resource Class** | **Failure | **Error Detection via      | **Error Handling Policy** | **Example**             |
   |                    | Mode**    | Hypervisor**               |                           |                         |
   +====================+===========+============================+===========================+=========================+

>    | Internal data of   | N/A       | Partial no.                | The hypervisor shall use  | virtual PCI device      |

Reviewer: I'm not sure what ``Partial no`` means.  I think it is a ``No``, or maybe "Incomplete", or maybe "Partial".

   |                    |           | guarantee the correctness, |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | the related error handling |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | codes need to be added.    |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | Note: Some examples of     |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | pre-conditions are listed, |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | like non-empty array, valid|                           |                         |
   |                    |           | array size and non-null    |                           |                         |
   |                    |           | pointer.                   |                           |                         |
   +--------------------+-----------+----------------------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+

>    | Configuration data | Corrupted | No.                        | The bootloader initializes| 'vm_config->pci_ptdevs' |

Reviewer: Tables like this are hard to edit, but this should read ``(including code, data, and bss)``, and in the last column the final period needs to adjacent to the last word, so it says ``statically.``

   |                    |           |                            | mechanism.                |                         |
   +--------------------+-----------+----------------------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+
   | Configuration data | N/A       | No.                        | The hypervisor shall use  | The maximum number of   |
   | of the hypervisor  |           | The related pre-conditions | the internal resource/data| PCI devices in the VM,  |
   |                    |           | are required.              | directly.                 | defined with            |
   |                    |           | The design will guarantee  |                           | CONFIG_MAX_PCI_DEV_NUM  |
   |                    |           | the correctness and this   |                           | through configuration.  |
   |                    |           | shall be verified manually.|                           |                         |
   +--------------------+-----------+----------------------------+---------------------------+-------------------------+

Examples
--------

Here are some examples to illustrate when error handling codes are required on

> module level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a module level.
```

**Example_1: Analyze the function 'partition_mode_vpci_init'**

.. code-block:: c

>   /**

Reviewer: Ah, here you do have the correct doxygen comment opening.  Good.

   * @pre vm != NULL
   * @pre vm->vpci->pci_vdev_cnt <= CONFIG_MAX_PCI_DEV_NUM
   */
  static int32_t partition_mode_vpci_init(const struct acrn_vm *vm)
  {
          struct acrn_vpci *vpci = (struct acrn_vpci *)&(vm->vpci);
          struct pci_vdev *vdev;
          struct acrn_vm_config *vm_config = get_vm_config(vm->vm_id);
          struct acrn_vm_pci_ptdev_config *ptdev_config;
          uint32_t i;

          vpci->pci_vdev_cnt = vm_config->pci_ptdev_num;

          for (i = 0U; i < vpci->pci_vdev_cnt; i++) {
                  vdev = &vpci->pci_vdevs[i];
                  vdev->vpci = vpci;
                  ptdev_config = &vm_config->pci_ptdevs[i];
                  vdev->vbdf.value = ptdev_config->vbdf.value;

                  if (vdev->vbdf.value != 0U) {
                          partition_mode_pdev_init(vdev, ptdev_config->pbdf);
                          vdev->ops = &pci_ops_vdev_pt;
                  } else {
                          vdev->ops = &pci_ops_vdev_hostbridge;
                  }

                  if (vdev->ops->init != NULL) {
                          if (vdev->ops->init(vdev) != 0) {

>                                   pr_err("%s() failed at PCI device (vbdf %x)!",

Reviewer: If this error is detected, should the loop continue?  Should the function still exit with a ``return 0``?

Author: Based on current design, the loop will continue and the next vdev will be initialized. Failure on one vdev does not block other devices.

                                          __func__, vdev->vbdf);
                          }
                  }
          }

          return 0;
  }

``get_vm_config`` is called by ``partition_mode_vpci_init``.
There are one pre-condition and two post-conditions of ``get_vm_config``.
It indicates that the caller of ``get_vm_config`` shall guarantee these
pre-conditions and ``get_vm_config`` itself shall guarantee the post-condition.

.. code-block:: c

>   /*

Reviewer: use doxygen comment opening ``/**``

   * @pre vm_id < CONFIG_MAX_VM_NUM
   * @post retval != NULL
   * @post retval->pci_ptdev_num <= MAX_PCI_DEV_NUM
   */
  struct acrn_vm_config *get_vm_config(uint16_t vm_id)
  {
          return &vm_configs[vm_id];
  }

**Question_1: Is error checking required for 'vm_config'?**

> No. Because 'vm_config' is getting from ``get_vm_config`` and the post-condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. Because 'vm_config' is getting data from ``get_vm_config`` and the post-condition
```

of ``get_vm_config`` guarantees that the return value is not NULL.

**Question_2: Is error checking required for 'vdev'?**

No. Here are the reasons:

a) The pre-condition of ``partition_mode_vpci_init`` guarantees that 'vm' is not

>    NULL. It indicates that 'vpci' is not NULL. Since 'vdev' is getting from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   NULL. It indicates that 'vpci' is not NULL. Since 'vdev' is getting data from the
```

   array 'pci_vdevs[]' via indexing, 'vdev' is not NULL as long as the index is
   valid.

b) The post-condition of ``get_vm_config`` guarantees that 'vpci->pci_vdev_cnt'
   is less than or equal to 'CONFIG_MAX_PCI_DEV_NUM', which is the array size of
   'pci_vdevs[]'. It indicates that the index used to get 'vdev' is always
   valid.

Given the two reasons above, 'vdev' is always not NULL. So, the error checking
codes are not required for 'vdev'.

**Question_3: Is error checking required for 'ptdev_config'?**

> No. 'ptdev_config' is getting from the array 'pci_vdevs[]', which is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. 'ptdev_config' is getting data from the array 'pci_vdevs[]', which is the
```

physical PCI device information coming from Board Support Package and firmware.

> For these physical PCI device information, the related application constraints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For physical PCI device information, the related application constraints
```

shall be defined in the design document or safety manual. For debug purpose,
developers could use ASSERT here to catch the Board Support Package or firmware
failures, which does not guarantee these application constraints.

**Question_4: Is error checking required for 'vdev->ops->init'?**

No. Here are the reasons:

a) Question_2 proves that 'vdev' is always not NULL.

b) 'vdev->ops' is fully initialized before 'vdev->ops->init' is called.

Given the two reasons above, 'vdev->ops->init' is always not NULL. So, the error
checking codes are not required for 'vdev->ops->init'.

**Question_5: How to handle the case when 'vdev->ops->init(vdev)' returns non-zero?**

This case indicates that the initialization of specific virtual device fails.
Investigation has to be done to figure out the root-cause. Default fatal error

> handler shall be invoked here if it is caused by the hardware failure or invalid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
handler shall be invoked here if it is caused by a hardware failure or invalid
```

boot information.

**Example_2: Analyze the function 'partition_mode_vpci_deinit'**

.. code-block:: c

  /**
   * @pre vdev != NULL
   * @pre vm->vpci->pci_vdev_cnt <= CONFIG_MAX_PCI_DEV_NUM
   */
  static void partition_mode_vpci_deinit(const struct acrn_vm *vm)
  {
          struct pci_vdev *vdev;
          uint32_t i;

          for (i = 0U; i < vm->vpci.pci_vdev_cnt; i++) {
                  vdev = (struct pci_vdev *) &(vm->vpci.pci_vdevs[i]);
                  if ((vdev->ops != NULL) && (vdev->ops->deinit != NULL)) {
                          if (vdev->ops->deinit(vdev) != 0) {
                                  pr_err("vdev->ops->deinit failed!");
                          }
                  }
                  /* TODO: implement the deinit of 'vdev->ops' */
          }
  }

**Question_6: Is error checking required for 'vdev->ops' and 'vdev->ops->init'?**

> Yes. Because 'vdev->ops' and 'vdev->ops->init' can not be guaranteed that it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. Because 'vdev->ops' and 'vdev->ops->init' can not be guaranteed to be
```
